Before I go into the detail of my motivation and my study, I need to talk about two essential concepts in this study. The first concept is productive training. It meant recalling second language word given its first language translation. For example, if you are learning italian, this means recalling Italian word given its English translation. Another concept is receptive training. This refers to recalling the first language translation given its second language term. Using that Italian example again, it will be recalling English translation given the Italian term. Next, I am going to talk about the motivation for this study. Past research suggested training in a test format is better than restudy control. However, no one had empirically tested whether the theory applied in learning second language vocabulary. Therefore, our first objective is to investigate whether retention rate is higher using test-format training compared to restudy control. Past research also argued training productively will lead to substantial receptive knowledge, or vice versa. They found that  that people were able to recall some target words when they were trained receptively but tested productively, or vice versa. Their logic is that since the participants did not know any of the target words prior to the study, any knowledge of the target word must come from the training itself. However, it is also possible the mere exposure to the word pair, instead of training, made participants learned the words. So, we added a restudy control to make sure that’s not the case. Our third objective is investigate whether adding a picture to productive training condition is better than productive training alone. This is motivated by the dual coding theory. Dual coding theory dictate that there are two systems in memory, one specialized in coding non-verbal object information (e.g. picture), the other specialized in coding verbal object information (e.g. words). The two systems function independently, meaning that a person can forget one code without forgetting the other. Therefore, if we allow people to code the target words using both systems, it may have a higher retention rate than coding using only one system. 

In the present study, we asked native Chinese undergrudate student to learn 48 English words. In the initial study phase, participants will see all the target words with its Chinese translation. After that, they will go through 4 training conditions. In the productive training condition, they will need to recall the English term given its Chinese translation. In the reeceptive training condition, they will need to recall the Chinese translation given its English term. In the picture + productive training condition,  they will need to recall the English term given its Chinese translation and a picture. In the restudy condition, they will see the English word and its Chinese translation appear simutaneously. After 48 hours, they will return and assign to take either the receptive or the productive final test. The final test format is identical to the receptive or productive training condition. 

Our result indicated that in productive final test, productive and picture + productive training condition is better than receptive training and restudy control. Additionally, we found picture + productive training is better than productive training. In receptive final test, our result indicated receptive, productive, and picture + productive condition is better than restudy control. No other signifcant comparsions were found. 

In conclusion, we found that retention rate is higher for training utilizing test format than restudy control. Second, we found that people may gained receptive knowledge from productive training. However, we have no evidence that they will gain productive knowledge from receptive training. Third, we found that adding a pictorial cue to productive training may be beneficial compared to productive training alone. In the future, researchers may want examine adding more cues (e.g. sound) may be more beneficial. 